# Prototyping

I'm a web developer, so when I think about "apps", I think about applications that run in your browser. That means in your desktop browser or mobile browser. Since this is something I want to do before bed, without a computer, I want the design to be mobile-first. That means I'm going to design the mobile style first, and then the desktop style. I want to be able to do all actions from both interfaces. I'm going to be doing all of my prototypes using a mobile interface, and adapt them for the desktop later.

I'm going to do all of the prototype drawings on paper - specifically napkins. Many great ideas start on the back of napkins, so I'm just keeping with tradition.

## Why paper?

For a digital product, you might wonder why I start with paper. There's a few different reasons.

1. **Quick and Dirty** - I can do a bunch of drawings in twenty minutes, and they are not going to be pixel perfect. I can get into "flow" a lot easier, and just move fast. Positioning things on a page takes longer, and I don't want to be focusing on the code yet. I was able to flush out general ideas of the major parts of the app in the course of one cup of coffee.
1. **Easy to throw away** - Since it doesn't take too long, it doesn't hurt as much to scrap ideas. With code, there is more investment, so it feels like you are losing more when you want to start over. Your first attempt is going to be missing a lot, since we rarely understand a problem fully when starting it.
1. **Don't get Bogged Down in Details** - I'm not an artist in any way, and I think this is beneficial for this. I don't worry about my boxes being perfectly aligned, or buttons all being the same size. This is all about trying to get the idea across as quickly as possible, leaving the visual perfection for later parts (when it actually matters).
1. **Anyone can understand it** - I can show pretty much anyone a flow drawing, with some explanation, and have them understand. If I had used code, there would be lots of distracting mistakes. Since it's a drawing, mistakes are expected, and easier to ignore. There are lower expectations from a drawing.


## Pages
Let's get started with a list of pages I think we'll need.

* Sign Up - If you don't have an account, how to sign up.
* Sign In - How to sign into the app.
* Blog - Where this post will go.
* Home - See last entry, go back in time, go to entry for today.
* Entering 3 Joys - Page to enter joys.
* Viewing 3 Joys - See views from a previous day.
* Notifications - Configure when and how to get notified.

With each page, numerous questions come into my mind. Some of them can be answered right now, but some will be answered later. Some will be difficult to answer, some will just depend on how much time I want to put in.

# Questions
* Sign Up
  * Should I have sign up with Google, Facebook, Twitter, Email?
  * Confirmation email?
* Sign In
  * Reset password / forgot username?
  * Ability to send an email that allows login from a mobile device without a password? (Slack does this very nicely)
* Blog
  * Allow comments?
* Home - See last entry, go back in time, go to entry for today.
  * Should have a link to today
    * Should say 'Enter' if they haven't finished today
    * Should say 'View' if they have finished today
  * How many recent entries should I show? 1, 2, 3?
  * How to go back in time? A calendar?
    * Does it show the current month (looks silly at the beginning of the month)
    * Show last 4 weeks?
* Entering 3 Joys
  * Are joys just text? Should I allow pictures?
    * If there are pictures, do they have a caption as well?
  * Have a 'Also post to Facebook/Twitter' option?
* Viewing 3 Joys
  * Maybe have a way to jump to a random date in the past
  * Should they be able to make joys public? They will be private by default, but maybe should allow sharing by a special link
  * Can you edit joys in the past? or add?
* Notifications
  * I'm thinking the first implemented will be text notifications.
  * What time will they get notified?
    * In what time zone?
      * What if they are travelling, and are in another time zone?
  * Native notifications for Android and iOS.
  * Email notifications?
  * Make sure not to notify if they have already entered their joys for the day.
  * Notify in multiple ways? Would anyone want email AND text notifications?

Now these aren't all of the considerations, but just some things I'm going to think about while doing the initial sketches.


[image]

I realized some things while drawing:
* Top bar - always have it. Easy to hit, but hard to accidentally hit.
* Max 3 buttons on top bar (left right middle)
* Always have a back button (left) and home button (middle) in the top bar. Only really 1 action.
* When keyboard is open, very little screen real estate.
* Missing a logged out home screen.
* Missing a password reset page.
* Logged out home page should have nav bar to match all other pages.
* Need a logo (just have 3J as the logo for right now).
* Photos make it look cooler.
* Page header describing where they are - Specific day, Logging Joys, Home, Sign in, etc (missing in all drawings)
* Some pages need more attention -
  * Log page
    * Complex - majority of user interaction is on this page
    * Active text box should expand.
    * Completed items should show as just text (not boxes) and a picture.
    * Unfinished items a smaller text box to save space?
    * Allow to load pictures only or able to take a picture for log?
    * have "Share" as a separate screen
    * Should have a common terminology. Button says 'Save', but home screen says 'Log'.
  * More page
    * seems bare, like wasted space and opportunity.
    * just having one month makes sense, but early in the month not helpful.
    * Maybe show last few weeks
    * Completed days are circled (or somehow visually different)
    * Uncompleted days are inactive links.

Also I found some new questions:
* What to do with rotated screen? Should I do drawings for each screen rotated as well?
* Top bar sticky / always present?
* respond by text/email instead of using app?
